h1. spf_ext

p. External file editor plugin for "Textpattern":http://www.textpattern.com/.

p. Create, edit and delete external (to Textpattern) files in Textpattern admin.

p. REQUIRES: Texpattern 4.5.1 and PHP 5 and shell access (for sym-linking existing files).

p. Use "version 0.2":https://github.com/spiffin/spf_ext/blob/master/spf_ext_v0.2.txt for Textpattern 4.4.1.

p. *Please read the instructions and notes below before use.*

p. This plugin creates external files you can manage and edit via the admin interface. All files are saved to the directory you create in step 1 of the instructions below. Syntax highlighting is available via "spf_codemirror":https://github.com/spiffin/spf_codemirror (currently HTML, PHP and JavaScript - more to come).

p. "DOWNLOAD":https://raw.github.com/spiffin/spf_ext/master/spf_ext.txt


h2. Why?

* This plugin allows you to edit and manage site files residing outside Textpattern within the Textpattern admin area (see 'Procedure for managing existing files' below).
* It offers an easy way to create static files you can edit and access via your page templates: @<txp:site_url />ext_files/yourfile.html@



h2. Instructions:

# Create a directory for the static external files in the root of your textpattern installation called 'ext_files' (or whatever you like). You should make sure that PHP is able to write to that directory.
# Visit the advanced preferences and make sure the "External files directory" preference contains the directory you created in step 1 (by default 'ext_files'). This path is relative path to the directory of your root Textpattern installation.
# Activate this plugin.
# Go to Extensions &gt; External Files and create files you'd like to manage.
# Always include a file extension in the file name (.html, .php, etc.).



h2. Procedure for managing existing files:

# Copy the contents of the file (called for example myfile.php) into a new file in Extensions &gt; External Files &gt; Create new file.
# Name the new file (External file name:) 'myfile.php'.
# Rename the original file (to, for example, 'myfile_original.php') - then you'll have a backup.
# Make a symbolic link, in the original file location, to the new file (e.g. cd to the 'ext_files' directory and then 'ln -s /original_directory_path/myfile.php ./myfile.php').



h2. Notes:

# You can only manage files which are read/write to your web server (i.e. within your web root) - e.g. Minify config files, external scripts, etc.
# Deleting a file via the External Files tab deletes the actual file in the 'ext_files' directory (as well as the database entry) - use with care!.



h2. Languages (Textpack)

p. This plugin installs an English Textpack by default.

p. To install a Textpack for your own language see the "instructions on GitHub":https://github.com/spiffin/spf_ext/blob/master/spf_ext_textpack.txt.



h2. Version history

* 0.4 - 3 December 2012 - fixed a silly typo.
* 0.31 - 7 November 2012 - rewritten for Textpattern 4.5.x.
* 0.2 - 26 August 2012 - security enhancements (thanks Jukka).
* 0.1 - April 2012 - first release.